packages/docs/guide/advanced/typed-routes.md, before:

# Typed Routes (v4.1.0+)

::: danger

 ⚠️ This feature is still experimental and will evolve in the future, make sure to follow along in release notes and check the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section if you have issues.

:::

With typed routes you get type validation when calling `router.push()` as well as autocompletion for the route path. It gives you:

- Validation for [named routes](../essentials/named-routes.md) `name` and `params` properties
- Autocompletion of the `to` prop when using the `<RouterLink>` component

## Usage

In order to benefit from typed routes, it is necessary to pass the `routes` option to the `as const`:

```ts{6}
const router = createRouter({
  // ...
  routes: [
    { path: '/', name: 'home' },
    { path: '/users/:id', name: 'user' },
  ] as const, // <-- this is the important part
})
```

This will give you a **typed router instance**. Go ahead and give it a try, start typing `router.push({ name: '|'}` and hit `ctrl` + `space` to autocomplete the route name. It will also autocomplete `params` if they exist and **give you a type error** if the name doesn't exist or if the provided params are missing any required params. Note that you can push a route **with no `params` property** and this will be considered valid for the types because `params` are always kept from the current route whenever possible.

### Typed `router` instance

It is possible to type `$router` and `useRouter()` to be the same type as the `router` instance we created above. To do this, we need to extend an interface. It's recommended to do so in the `router.ts` file, right after creating the router:

```ts{5-9}
export const router = createRouter({
  // ...options
})

declare module 'vue-router' {
  interface Config {
    Router: typeof router
  }
}
```

### Typed `<RouterLink>`

Providing the router instance to the `Config` interface above, will also provide typings to the `<RouterLink>` component's `to` prop.

## Caveats

Currently, typed routes are inferred at runtime with complex, costly types that become slow if you have a lot of routes. If you have more than 50 routes, you will should give this a try first to see how much it impacts the compilation time of your project.

If you have [dynamic routes](../advanced/dynamic-routing.md), these cannot be typed and if you use [named routes](../essentials/named-routes.md), you won't be able to push to them so it's better not to use both at the same time.

## Troubleshooting

If you ever find something blocking you or making your types too slow, you can just remove the `as const` part to rollback to the previous version of the types. If something not mentioned here isn't working and you think it should be working, please open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/vuejs/router/issues).

Commit message:

docs: typed routes details for 4.1

packages/docs/guide/advanced/typed-routes.md, after:

# Typed Routes (v4.1.0+)

::: danger ‼️ Experimental feature

 This feature is still experimental and will evolve in the future, make sure to follow along in release notes and check the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section if you have issues. This feature is very likely to be replaced by a much more efficient build-based implementation. It not recommended for projects with a lot of routes (+50) but the setup takes about a minute and can be reverted in a few seconds at any time.

:::

With typed routes you get type validation when calling `router.push()` as well as autocompletion for the route path. It gives you:

- Validation for [named routes](../essentials/named-routes.md) `name` and `params` properties
- Autocompletion of the `to` prop when using the `<RouterLink>` component

## Usage

In order to benefit from typed routes, it is necessary to pass the `routes` option to the `as const`:

```ts{6}
const router = createRouter({
  // ...
  routes: [
    { path: '/', name: 'home' },
    { path: '/users/:id', name: 'user' },
  ] as const, // <-- this is the important part
})
```

This will give you a **typed router instance**. Go ahead and give it a try, start typing `router.push({ name: '|'}` and hit `ctrl` + `space` to autocomplete the route name. It will also autocomplete `params` if they exist and **give you a type error** if the name doesn't exist or if the provided params are missing any required params. Note that you can push a route **with no `params` property** and this will be considered valid for the types because `params` are always kept from the current route whenever possible.

### Typed `router` instance

It is possible to type `$router` and `useRouter()` to be the same type as the `router` instance we created above. To do this, we need to extend an interface. It's recommended to do so in the `router.ts` file, right after creating the router:

```ts{5-9}
export const router = createRouter({
  // ...options
})

declare module 'vue-router' {
  interface Config {
    Router: typeof router
  }
}
```

### Typed `<RouterLink>`

Providing the router instance to the `Config` interface above, will also provide typings to the `<RouterLink>` component's `to` prop.

## Caveats

Currently, typed routes are inferred at runtime with complex, costly types that become slow if you have a lot of routes. If you have more than 50 routes, you will should give this a try first to see how much it impacts the compilation time of your project.

If you have [dynamic routes](../advanced/dynamic-routing.md), these cannot be typed and if you use [named routes](../essentials/named-routes.md), you won't be able to push to them so it's better not to use both at the same time.

Some APIs like `useRoute()` and `router.resolve()` are still not typed while this feature is being tested.

## Troubleshooting

If you ever find something blocking you or making your types too slow, you can just remove the `as const` part to rollback to the previous version of the types. If something not mentioned here isn't working and you think it should be working, please open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/vuejs/router/issues).
